[MSTG-STORAGE-12] Add Privacy Labels and Rework Privacy Chapter (#1988)
OWASP/owasp-mstg: Document/0x04i-Testing-User-Privacy-Protection.md

Most parts of the processes derived from the protection goals are traditionally being covered in a privacy policy. However, this approach is not always optimal:

- developers are not legal experts but still need to be compliant.
- users would be required to read usually long and wordy policies.

### The New Approach (Google's and Apple's take on this)

In order to address these challenges and help users easily understand how their data is being collected, handled and shared, Google and Apple introduced new privacy labeling systems (very much along the lines of NIST's proposal for [Consumer Software Cybersecurity Labeling](https://www.nist.gov/system/files/documents/2021/11/01/Draft%20Consumer%20Software%20Labeling.pdf):

- the App Store [Nutrition Labels](https://www.apple.com/privacy/labels/) (since 2020).
- the Google Play [Data Safety Labels](https://android-developers.googleblog.com/2021/05/new-safety-section-in-google-play-will.html) (since 2021).

> As a new requirement on both platforms, it's vital that these labels are accurate in order to provide user assurance and mitigate developer abuse.

Reviewer: I think we can remove "developer" and just emphasize abuse. Developer might not directly be the person abusing, even though it's implement through them

> As a new requirement on both platforms, it's vital that these labels are accurate in order to provide user assurance and mitigate developer abuse.

Author: ```suggestion
As a new requirement on both platforms, it's vital that these labels are accurate in order to provide user assurance and mitigate abuse.
```

> ### Common Violations that Can Be Addressed with the New Approach

Reviewer: How shall the Pentester verify "An app that records a user’s screen and doesn't treat this data as personal or sensitive data that is subject to this policy." and also the others listed? Does this mean the nutrition / data safety label is missing?

Reviewer: We could make this maybe part of the test case below, or  otherwise reference to it to make it clear how to test.

> This is a non-exhaustive list of common violations that you as as security tester should report:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following is not an exhaustive list of common violations that you as as security tester should report:
```

Author: My intention here is to express that the following is a list that you can use as an example/reference, starting point, etc. I'm not listing all possible elements.

It sounds strange to me to make the sentence negative. It's like.. "it's not a list, then what is it?" (the reader would wonder). If it would include a "but" then it would sound better to me. Something like "... but you can use it as a starting point."

If it's not wrong I'd rather stick to the "non-exhaustive" affirmative formulation which would be shorter. What do you think?

Reviewer 2: I also gave this one a lot of thought and I couldn't find "non-exhaustive" or "nonexhaustive" as an actual word in any dictionary, it's only used like "not exhaustive." But really, people know what it means, so I think it's another style choice and overall ok to use if you think so. Or you could say "The following is a list of common violations that you as a security tester should report (although not an exhaustive list):"

Author: Interesting... I'm totally used to read that, so I never questioned it. Thanks for your thoughts on that. I like your suggestion so I'll take it but I'll keep thinking on that "non-exhaustive" thing for the future. Now I need to find out more about it 😁

- An app collects device location but does not have a prominent disclosure explaining which feature uses this data and/or indicates the app's usage in the background.

> - An app has a runtime permission requesting access to data before the prominent disclosure which specifies what the data is used for.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- An app has a runtime permission requesting access to data before the prominent disclosure which specifies why the data is used.
```

Reviewer 2: Yes, this one is just another example of slightly more formal language because "what for" and "why" are very interchangeable. It's better to not end a sentence on a preposition like "for," but it's completely your style choice because they do have the same meaning.

Author: ok, great! Thanks for the explanation :)

> - An app that accesses a user's phone or contact book data and doesn't treat this data as personal or sensitive data subject to the above Privacy Policy, data handling, and Prominent Disclosure and Consent requirements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- An app that accesses a user's phone or contact book data and doesn't treat this data as personal or sensitive data that is subject to the above Privacy Policy, data handling, and Prominent Disclosure and Consent requirements.
```

> - An app that records a user’s screen and doesn't treat this data as personal or sensitive data subject to this policy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- An app that records a user’s screen and doesn't treat this data as personal or sensitive data that is subject to this policy.
```

> Since we keep talking about location, contacts, screen recordings, etc., you probably have noticed that all of this is closely related to app permissions. App developers must explain the user why your app needs the permissions it requests. Both [iOS](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/ios/app-architecture/requesting-permission/) and [Android](https://developer.android.com/training/permissions/requesting.html#explain) have specific guidelines and best practices for that.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since we keep talking about location, contacts, screen recordings, etc., you probably have noticed that all of this is closely related to app permissions. App developers must explain to the user why their app needs the permissions it requests. Both [iOS](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/ios/app-architecture/requesting-permission/) and [Android](https://developer.android.com/training/permissions/requesting.html#explain) have specific guidelines and best practices for that.
```

### Learn More

You can learn more about this and other privacy related topics here:

- [iOS App Privacy Policy](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/healthkit/protecting_user_privacy#3705073)
- [iOS Privacy Details Section on the App Store](https://developer.apple.com/app-store/app-privacy-details/)
- [iOS Privacy Best Practices](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/protecting_the_user_s_privacy)
- [Android App Privacy Policy](https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/9859455#privacy_policy)
- [Android Data Safety Section on Google Play](https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/10787469)
- [Android Privacy Best Practices](https://developer.android.com/privacy/best-practices)

## Testing User Education (MSTG-STORAGE-12)

### Testing User Education on Data Privacy on the App Marketplace

At this point we're only interested into knowing which privacy related information is being disclosed by the developers and try to evaluate if it seems reasonable (similarly as you'd do when testing for permissions).

> > It's possible that the developers are not declaring certain information that is indeed being collected and or shared, but that's a topic for a different test extending this one here.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> It's possible that the developers are not declaring certain information that is indeed being collected and/or shared, but that's a topic for a different test extending this one here.
```

### Static Anaylsis

You can follow these steps:

1. Search for the app in the corresponding app marketplace (e.g. Google Play, App Store).
2. Go to the section ["Privacy Details"](https://developer.apple.com/app-store/app-privacy-details/) (App Store) or ["Safety Section"](https://android-developers.googleblog.com/2021/05/new-safety-section-in-google-play-will.html) (Google Play).
3. Verify if there's any infomation available at all.

> 4. Compare the information available against the actual context of the app. Does everything makes sense?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Compare the information available against the actual context of the app. Does everything make sense?
```

> 4. Compare the information available against the actual context of the app. Does everything make sense?

Reviewer: That seems to be quite a big ask. Should this really be the job a penetration tester to verify? Or should the pentester just record and verify the app inspection and make it part of the deliverable? 
A pentester might not want to give assurance for privacy violations in such a detail as this could become quite time consuming and should focus on vulnerabilities (including raising suspicious app permissions) in the app and endpoint.

Author: I'll modify the conclusion/assessment paragraph below to reflect that for this test, verifying this is actually enough. After that I'll add the "app activity monitoring/exported Privacy Report" below as "Dynamic Analysis", being an optional step providing evidence.

> Store the information you got from the app marketplace as evidence, if possible on a machine readable format that you can later use to verify potential violations of privacy or data protection by the developers (e.g. by comparing it to an exported [Privacy Report](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/network/privacy_management/inspecting_app_activity_data) on iOS or your own measurements).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Store the information you got from the app marketplace as evidence- if possible on a machine readable format that you can later use to verify potential violations of privacy or data protection by the developers (e.g. by comparing it to an exported [Privacy Report](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/network/privacy_management/inspecting_app_activity_data) on iOS or your own measurements).
```

### Testing User Education on Security Best Practices

Testing this might be especially challenging if you intend to automate it. We recommend to use the app extensively and try to answer the following questions whenever applicable:

- **Fingerprint usage**: when fingerprints are used for authentication providing access to high risk transactions/information,

>     _does the app inform the user about the issues there can be when having multiple fingerprints of other people registered to the device as well?_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    _does the app inform the user about potential issues when having multiple fingerprints of other people registered to the device as well?_
```

- **Rooting/Jailbreaking**: when root or jailbreak detection is implemented,

    _does the app inform the user of the fact that certain high-risk actions will carry additional risk due to the jailbroken/rooted status of the device?_

- **Specific credentials**: when a user gets a recovery code, a password or a pin from the application (or sets one),

    _does the app instruct the user to never share this with anyone else and that only the app will request it?_

- **Application distribution**: in case of a high-risk application and in order to prevent users from downloading compromised versions of the application,

    _does the app manufacturer properly communicate the official way of distributing the app (e.g. from Google Play or the App Store)?_

> - **Prominent Disclosure**: on any case,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Prominent Disclosure**: in any case,
```
